Today's episode is sponsored by
data dog a cloud scale
monitoring platform that unifies metrics
traces logs and more in
a single pane of glass
automatically alert on performance anomalies
easily build custom dashboards and
collaborate to resolve issues and
real-time Tri data dog for
yourself with a free 14-day.
Trial Hansel minutes listeners will
also receive a free t-shirt.
Visit bitly.com /data dog shirt.
That's SBI tly.com data dog
shirt to get started. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of cancel
minutes today. I'm talking with
Sarah Beck. She's a machine
learning solution principal at Sloan
build. How are you? I'm
doing well Scott. How are
you? Very well. I am
out here teaching myself as
much as I can about
data science, but it's it's
a little confusing. There's machine
learning. There's deep learning. There's
the data. There's the algorithm
maybe you can start by
helping me understand the difference
between machine learning and deep
learning because sometimes I feel
like the journalists and the
tech writers just squish it
all together. I would love
to machine learning is a
general term for algorithms. In
data science that are optimizing
something under a constraint. I
know that those sounds like
some fairly technical mathy terms
and I'd be happy to
break that down more in
a minute deep learning refers
to a specific area of
machine learning that tends to
deal with what we refer
to as neural networks and
neural network type models are
very important. or computer vision
and I have made great
strides and image processing and
Auto Audio detection. Mmm General
machine learning algorithms are they
can work on Money More
Problems things that like for
example, if you wanted to
identify all the cats and
a picture you might apply
deep learning algorithm to find
all the cats. Where's the
machine learning algorithm others might
be able to tell you
oh this Area of the
picture has fur and we
think that the color of
what we think is for
looks like a cat. So
anyway, there's this little distinction
between deep learning and neural
network models and other algorithms
where you can use the
information to draw other conclusions
or find out more about
the problem. You're trying to
model. Does that make sense?
A little bit but I
want to get more I
want to get even clearer.
If you don't mind. It
feels to me like deep
learning architectures apply very often
or more up more often
apply to Fields. Like Vision
speech natural language things that
the brain does is that
a fair statement. I would
say that it's very fair
and and recent years deep
learning has led to huge
advances and those areas the
reason deep learning techniques aren't
Is presently used all over
the place has to do
with the computational power required
to train models on all
of that data and that
deep learning models are also
considered more of a black
box model. There are a
lot of data science problems
where it's very important to
be able to give an
answer why a model is
suggesting a certain output with
things. Things like image processing
it's less important to know
why an algorithm in the
example before with cats decided
there were many cats in
the picture versus another algorithm.
We're knowing wise important if
it's a black box if
we're effectively let's put this
in a simplistic terms because
I think a lot of
the folks that are listening
have written programs before and
they've written programs with lots
of functions, and if I
were to then A function
that is detect cat and
I write it programmatically and
I figure out some way
in code with for loops
and if statements to write
a function that's detected cats
and then I turn that
over to a deep Learning
System something that's doing deep
structured learning or hierarchical learning
and I train a model
and now detect cat is
Magic. It's literally like that
Far Side cartoon. We saw
many years ago where someone
is describing the complexity of
a system and then at
some point they get into
the algorithm ago. Go and
then a miracle happens and
then you continue on with
the rest of the algorithm.
We're really inserting an unknown
into our thing and just
trusting it in the sense.
We are it would say
that neural network models are
great at doing what they
do because they are designed
exactly the way our brains
work in terms of when
we look at a picture
and can identify a cat
are the nerves and our
eyes get these light signals
from the and then it
is sent to many layers
of our neurons, but For
the most part I may
be an optometrist or a
neurologist this process. I don't
know. Why when I'm looking
at this picture, I think
it would look like a
cat just it's some yes,
there's a lot of unknown
but there are still ways
to test and validate that
these models are being very
reliable. Mmm. We've had folks
on the show talk about
like bias and machine learning
and deep learning and how
if your data in is
bad Then your function out
might be bad and it
could identify a person as
a cat or a bush
or anything like that is
the goal to be perfect
or is the goal to
be as good as humans.
What is the goal when
designing something like this? Well,
I would say that that
really depends on the specific
problem. Someone is trying to
solve in terms of maybe
a Biometrics case for someone
is using deep learning to
identify a fingerprint or an
iris for 30 reasons in
those circumstances you really do
need to be perfect due
to what might be at
stake in terms of security
if the goal is just
to tell if there's a
living creature or person so
that may be a self-driving
car doesn't hit it or
something else. Then it really
doesn't matter whether we're 100%
perfect and knowing this pixel
is A dog or a
cat or person right if
I use something like Google
photos, which is consistently asking
me questions about new questions
saying, oh is this a
picture of your wife is
that a picture of your
wife and every couple of
times? I'll open it. It'll
ask me things and I
presume it is then training.
I'm teaching it more about
my family's would figures out
who's who if it gets
someone wrong. It's you know
it I guess the worst-case
scenario that could offend me,
but it's not going to
be like life-threatening. But false
positives if it was looking
at a an image and
saying that someone has cancer
that could be hugely problematic.
So it could and those
problems also exist even with
like blood testing or been
looking at other biological tests
that a doctor might suggest
for diagnosis good points. So
that problem isn't very unique
to deep learning and I
know that in all This
feels there's always the best
effort to reduce false positives
without missing diagnosis because neither
case is very good be
very stressful to find out
you a doctor thought you
had cancer when you don't
and not to mention expensive.
Hmm But you bring up
a really good point actually
gets to the hype of
machine learning and deep learning
is that we are we
I think we're being sold.
We the A person the
community is being sold an
idea that these are going
to solve the really unsolvable
problems. But that doesn't mean
that they're going to be
perfect. They really aren't like
blood tests aren't perfect and
deep learning models are not
perfect. That's exactly correct. And
I would say that depending
on the nature of the
problem. Someone's trying to solve
deep learning algorithms may not
really be the best choice
just because with these neural
network models you do lose
that visibility into what Slating
to the result or an
inference or learning you could
glean from a different type
of algorithm. Like for example,
if a bank had and
machine learning model to assess
whether someone was credit worthy.
It would be good to
be able to tell that
like a loan applicant why
your application for credit was
denied so that they might
be able to do something
about it versus like a
deep learning model which is
say yes or no. Oh
whether someone was credit worthy
and it would be a
lot harder to prove there
is no bias. Hmm. That's
a good point. Certainly if
we had a deep learning
model that was telling me
that I was guilty or
not or why I was
going to jail or why
I was arrested. There'd be
huge opportunities to either directly
or indirectly introduce bias and
have no way to confirm.
It's just simply a thumbs
up or thumbs down which
is a fairly. Well, I
would be a plot for
a pretty scary science fiction
movie. Definitely. Hey don't know
that I'd want to Watch
that one. So when we
think about these models and
we say that we describe
them of a black you
describe them as a black
box. We don't always know
why but if the use
case is appropriate then it's
ok that it is a
black box you're saying yes,
and I would say that
even outside of deep learning.
It's really important to make
sure that whatever algorithm being
selected really matches the use
case for like what that
problem is trying to solve
and also, So the data
available to try to solve
that problem is kind of
this triangle of how those
three components work together the
algorithm the data and the
nature of the problem. So
that requires really significant thought
in the in the all
three parts of that you
could see where someone might
potentially take a shortcut maybe
their data isn't complete or
thoughtful or enough or maybe
they just picked the default
or Inappropriate algorithm any one
of those legs is wrong
in the stool Falls over
correct? And that's actually a
really big part that will
lead to what I'll call
a statistical bias that is
a little different than what
we might describe as bias
in terms of discrimination or
unlawful bias often people. Don't
do their Dill due diligence
exploring the data and understanding
how the data was collected.
And these little nuances that
if you knew the answer
to all those questions, maybe
you would choose a different
algorithm or approach the problem
in a different way. This
has really started in the
last you say the last
10 15 years. This is
not deep learning isn't something
going back into the 50s
as it mean like maybe
the neural networks in the
understanding of how we might
do these things have been
been around for a long
time. But this is the
last 20-30 years wouldn't you
say has been the big
ride? Of deep learning. Well,
I would say that the
rise of deep learning is
definitely more in the last
decade 20 years and coinciding
with the increase of computational
power and the ability to
collect more and more data
people were familiar with the
I guess methodology behind deep
learning in terms of neural
networks actually believe way earlier
than the 50s. It's just
there wasn't a good way
to try to to build
those types of models at
scale. Hmm, right when I
was reading up on this.
I understand that people were
thinking about kind of learning
algorithms in the 60s and
70s and then the term
deep learning was introduced by
a woman named Marina detector
in 1986, but in the
early 2010's when when the
realization that a GPU would
be a useful thing for
not just Graphics, but for
expressing and solving these problems
that's where things really kind
of kicked off because we
all have GPS Use and
they've just been shooting bad
guys and suddenly I can
use them for something else.
That's exactly right major on
locks and image processing as
a result to this computational
power at this the type
of video games kind of
reminded me of that. Yeah
the idea that I have
a deep learning capable GPU
that I've been just waiting
wasting on on shooting bad
guys is not lost on
me. There's something about gpus
that caused them to be
just so much more appropriate
for four deep. Learning systems
than general-purpose CPUs. Hey friends
backlog is an all-in-one project
and code management tool development
teams have been waiting for
with project management bug tracking
Wiki's and get rolled into
one easy to use platform
backlog provides. The powerful features
at development teams need under
a clean UI that anyone
can use you can easily
on board your whole team
and start working on tasks
in minutes additional features like
Gant and burdened. Charts make
it easy to manage projects
mobile apps keep your team
connected and simple pricing scales
with you. So you can
stop worrying about per user
charges build your next project
with backlog get a 30-day
obligation free trial at backlog.com
Hansel minutes. That's ba CK
L OG.com Hansel minutes. So
I've been looking into building
these myself and as I
learn about this, I don't
understand. What regression models are
as I'm trying to pick
the right data and feed
this into a model? What
does a regression model well
regression models are not what
I would describe as a
deep learning algorithm. Did you
ever take a physics class
in high school or sure
you might like try to
design or use your data
to find the best fit
line. Yep. Absolutely. Yeah, you
have a bunch of like
dots on a graph and
you kind of like pick
a line that goes through.
Through them all for the
most part regression models follow
that class of format where
you're trying to find the
best line or it could
be a shape instead of
a straight line that describes
the data and the case
for you like have a
line where you might have
why being and I may
be at the money in
your bank account and X
ping time like 38 coefficients
on the variables like time.
There are different ways to
to build these models so
that you can like in
this example of money over
time predict something that is
linear and like a continuous
number. There are other ways
to apply these same types
of regression models to questions
that have a yes no
outcome or others where the
model is actually very nonlinear
like something like perhaps the
cost model or different. Models
regression models are a great
way to get some inference
about like what's causing the
result result of your problem,
assuming that all the assumptions.
The regression models make make
sense for that situation. Okay.
So let me see if
I can understand that and
phrase it differently because I'm
I'm still trying to learn
about this. So if I
want to understand the relationship
between some variables and In
the simplest case. It's a
bunch of dots heading in
a general direction and I'm
drawing a line through it
like a vector and I
could then if it's a
nice straight line I can
predict what's coming next and
that can make answering questions
about that data pretty easy.
But if it's something like
the stock market, it looks
like it's random and I
guess one could argue that
it's not random and there's
just an infinite number of
variables that feed into it.
I'm hearing you say that
if I feed the wrong
variable. Then I might try
to draw correlation where there
just simply isn't any that's
definitely part of it. If
you have attributes that aren't
impactful for what you're trying
to predict you have a
risk of making bad predictions
leveraging those variables. Another part
I wanted to touch on
was it's not just but
variables you use it's also
how those variables are. Transformed
before they are even used
in the regression. For example,
maybe one of your variables
for a regression that has
to do with whether or
not someone will be accepted
into a university. Maybe one
of those variables is a
grade someone had in the
class if it's really hard
class and only two people
have is that's going to
lead to It Model results
then if maybe you use
the score of what someone
had in the class like
98 compared to 73 or
C or a right? So
you're saying that there's context
in any story and you're
basically trying to data that
you feed into this model
is a story that you're
trying to tell and as
you go and you say
hey, I got a 98
in this class. I'm amazing
that that's a story but
it doesn't necessarily tell the
full story if it turns
out that the next person
in the Glass got a
16 or one else flunked
and you know you cheated
suddenly the Troy has a
lot more context. Yes and
models will handle things like
we just described differently depending
on the nature of the
algorithm how many people or
how prevalent the different situations
are that are being modeled
a lot of what I
consider data science myself is
building an empathy for the
situation. You're trying to model
and The data so that
you can really apply the
best algorithm. Hmm. Another thing
that's interesting is that these
are situations that change right
like using the classroom example
classes and things that we
take in college are different
now and they'll be different
in 10 years and they're
different than they were 20
years ago. So you could
describe a model that's amazing.
But in six months it
turns out that that's not
a good model. Are you
going to be constantly revising
models? The constant revision of
models does happen quite a
lot in practice. Practice, I
would say that there are
maybe two major camps to
model updating one is perhaps
you're building a beautiful model
that works. Well for right
now and you implement that
same model over and over
again until time passes and
your model has become stale
because you're noticing maybe higher
error than you were before
another campus machine learning models
would be called online learning.
Do you use any Internet
of Things devices like a
Smartwatch, for example. Oh my
goodness. I you asked the
wrong person because I've been
about 40 different internet of
things I my house is
the internet of crap. I
have all the devices. So
yes, the the quit the
answer that question is absolutely
myself. I'm an avid triathlete
and I wear a smartwatch
my train. Often the estimation
for how fast I'm going
when I'm running the type
of model the to use
to make those estimates would
be in the class called
online learning where it's learning
from the information you have
right now based off of
a few different measurements. So
that's being updated continuously as
time goes on like a
smartwatch doesn't need a new
model. It just needs new
information to make sure I'm
getting it. Great up-to-date running
speed right? So then using
the example I had before
of the Google photos. The
model is solid but they
just need more context about
new photographs that are being
taken and they go I
think these are the same
person give me a little
bit more information and then
the model improves. Yes. I
don't want to speak for
Google because I don't work
for them. Of course. I'm
weary. I'm thinking in the
general sense in the case
of deep learning models that
are computer vision based my
bestest. Fission is that they
have maybe a kind of
a scheduled model retraining hmm.
We're like, oh now that
they have enough information. It's
a few months later. Let's
return and deploy whereas deep
learning image processing models can
be very difficult to train
retrain very quickly. So you're
more likely to see something
scheduled or have periodic updates
on more of a rigid
Cadence. Okay, so if I'm
if I'm Having to do
that like how would I
know that my model needs
to be retrained regularly and
do what I then kind
of introduce for lack of
a better term continuous integration
and continuous deployment into my
model so that I've got
a model I use it
my company and then we
decide every quarter will go
and retrain and redeploy in
terms of using something like
continuous integration for machine learning
that is very problem specific.
I often see models retrains
in practice and have to
bigger. Situations one is when
there's now like an undesirable
outcome in terms of error
or something and a different
process has happened where maybe
it takes the model longer
than it should or an
increase in maybe false positives.
The other situation is when
maybe the model needs to
support a new feature or
the nature of the data
is going to change. So
much in the future that
the old model will not
be relevant. So a common
strategy. I've seen a lot
of companies use in terms
of when to promote a
new model to production is
to like actually use a/b
testing and see how a
model is performing relative to
the old trusty production model.
Hmm. That's a very good
point. If one is going
to introduce revisions to their
model one should not just
blindly deploy the newer one
because it's newer it may
just well be worse and
unless you test you won't
ever know which is a
good reminder that whether it's
machine learning or deep learning
or just straight procedural programming,
you know measure twice cut.
Once that is a really
good point trying to figure
out the integration point for
these things how the data
scientist interacts with the development
team and where the line
kind of blurs is kind
of a little bit fascinating
to me. I know that
you work on systems with
large. Another engineers and usually
I assume that this does
this data scientists it with
the developers and you all
work hand-in-hand you're a developer
as well. I would say
that during the earlier stages
of a project. I'm more
likely to work with it
data engineer or other data
scientists and towards final stages
of project. I'm more likely
to work with a developer
or software engineer to you
know build the API. Make
sure that everything is being
well integrated and then pours
the end. It is one
runs on its own and
you're in your needed less
less. I want it's more
of a keep it keep
the lights on situation. I
would say so I guess
after you said that one
example of a past experience
relate pop to mind. I've
built some digital fraud models
in the past and to
detect fraudulent transactions and fraudsters
never sleep. So in that
sense data Just like need
to continually work to make
sure that their models are
preventing as much fraud as
possible. In other circumstances. My
job would be done and
maybe someone would call me
for future support or something
looks strange, but I know
I've been saying this a
lot. It really depends on
the situation fraud would be
a huge example of the
work is never finished. Well,
I think it's important that
you are saying that a
lot and I don't think
that that's something to apologize
for because what you're really
doing. Scribing is if ever
there were an industry where
quote-unquote it depends. It is
machine learning and deep learning
and when you're training these
models I'm hearing you say
that really a true understanding
of the problem space is
as important as anything. It
is important in that three-legged
stool that you were describing
about the data the algorithm
and the problem space and
to not think about that
or not respect that. At
that understanding the problem space
is important is is to
Doom yourself to fail. Oh,
I could not agree more
with what you just said.
It's hearing someone else say
it is like music for
my ears, huh? That makes
me feel like I know
I understand that. You know,
that's why we do podcast
right? Because we try to
come to an understanding so
that myself and The Listener
and the audience all go.
Ah, okay. Now we do
understand it because I can
paraphrase it back to you
which makes me happy great
and it had just because
data Sciences I mean, I
would say business and technology
think it's really a creative
job that requires a lot
of empathy trying to make
something feasible for both the
business user or the customer
and the like technology engineering
side without asking questions and
really diving deep into those
problems. Just you're not going
to be able to do
a good job pleasing both
groups of people. Yeah. Absolutely,
you've got a lot of
constraints to work within and
this is where the the
model is such a for
lack of a better word
a squishy thing, you know,
you can't really put your
finger on it and you
can't really understand it. So
you make sure that the
things that you do understand
or as clear as possible
so that the inputs the
three inputs that we've been
describing are put in and
if you come to new
understanding and you understand it
better then you make sure
that that understanding is fed
back into the model, of
course. And it's a very
iterative process where like maybe
we explore the data. We
build a model and back
when we gain more understanding
it just kind of Cycles
on an iteration until enough
Cycles have happened where it's
ready to be deployed or
all the wisdom that can
be cleaned. Is there not
to put you on the
spot, but do you have
a favorite book or a
favorite starting point for people
who are listening and they
want to go and they
want to do a I
like I send time sometimes
people lie. I say to
go to AI school which
is a thing that Microsoft
offers there's lots of different
online tutorials and books. I'm
curious what your favorite is
or favorite author in the
space. This is probably going
to reveal I'm a certain
type of data scientists more
than others. I enjoyed the
textbook Bayesian data analysis. I
really like this book because
the Bayesian school of thought
helps people apply other wisdom
from areas that they do.
Know something about and helps
people integrate that prior knowledge
into other models that then
can update those opinions and
prior knowledge. So philosophically I
enjoyed that book for someone
trying to learn but I
don't actually spend a lot
of time reading data science
or machine learning books. I'm
more likely to read a
tech article or perhaps a
medium post and I want
to go ahead and get
links from you or suggested
reading there's all kinds of
great great places online where
people can learn like edx
dot edu has a great
data science articles Coursera and
others. So we'll have a
link to that book and
others in the show notes
for this show. That would
be great. I had look
forward to sending those along
fantastic. Thanks so much for
chatting with me Sarah Beck.
She's a machine learning solution
principal at slalom build and
be sure to check out
the show notes for all
the different things that we
talked about. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes.
It's and we'll see you
again next week.